---
date: "2021-06-21T00:00:00Z"
external_link: 
image:
summary: This is the dashboard I created with the University of Oregon's (UO) Graduate School at `external_link`.
tags:
title: UO Graduate School Dashboard
---

This [link](https://jpedroza1228.github.io/gradschool_dashboard/) leads to a dashboard I created with the UO's Graduate School. This project was a lot of work since there were major discrepancies between the data on UO courses and graduate employee (GEs) data from the Graduate School. After I was able to join the two datasets together, I was able to create a dataframe with all course data from the UO from 2014 to 2019. This dataframe was large since there are a lot of courses at the UO. Instead I decided to get the average values for undergraduate course credits, teaching GE allocation, and teaching full-time equivalent (FTE) work by department and year. 

The first page of the dashbaoard gives some descriptives of teaching GEs across UO departments from 2014-2019. The colors used are based on Datsun car colors from the 70s. For those that don't know, Datsun is a car company that was the predecessor to Nissan. Some cars that are well known are the [Datsun 510](https://www.google.com/search?q=datsun+510&rlz=1C1CHBF_enUS926US926&sxsrf=ALeKk01D_WVsnuPBxtj5wVZYLVYctei-bQ:1624346080198&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiKrOjY2KrxAhUCHTQIHTfVCPMQ_AUoAXoECAQQAw&biw=1920&bih=880) and the [Datsun 240z](https://www.google.com/search?q=datsun+240&tbm=isch&ved=2ahUKEwiHk_nZ2KrxAhWxBDQIHRd8Db4Q2-cCegQIABAA&oq=datsun+240&gs_lcp=CgNpbWcQAzIFCAAQsQMyAggAMgIIADICCAAyBQgAELEDMgIIADICCAAyAggAMgIIADICCAA6BAgjECc6BAgAEEM6BwgAELEDEENQgdgBWPDrAWCE5AJoAHAAeACAAUeIAdwEkgECMTCYAQCgAQGqAQtnd3Mtd2l6LWltZ8ABAQ&sclient=img&ei=4o3RYIeaIrGJ0PEPl_i18As&bih=880&biw=1920&rlz=1C1CHBF_enUS926US926). The next two plots go deeper into undergraduate course credits and teaching GE allocation by department for the three main quarters (e.g., Fall, Winter, Spring) of the academic year. These plots are also interactive and allow for the reader to click on the name of the department on the legend to examine the number of each construct for one department. 

The second page of the dashboard includes visuals that examine the main association between the variables that the Graduate School was interested in. These associations can be seen on the visuals on the left for each year between GE FTE and undergraduate course credits. The table on the right shows the three multi-level models that were created to examine the fixed effects of these constructs on undergraduate course credits. The first model examined if undergraduate course credit changed over time. The model showed that each term from Fall 2014 to Spring 2019 there was an increase in undergraduate course credits. The second model then showed that when there was an increase in the number of teaching GEs, there was an increase in undergraduate course credits. The last model found that when there was an increase in GE FTE, there was also an increase in undergraduate course credits. Overall, each model showed there was great variation between colleges, between course departments in each college, and within each department. The following visuals showed the key associations with the data from all the quarters from 2014 to 2019 included. 